# What Next after Installing a Node?

After your node has been successfully installed and set up, here are a few extra tasks to complete along with some tips and tricks.

Keep up with the latest newss by joining the following Discord channels:
- network-announcements
- network-general
- network-services-release
- network-indexer-announcements
- network-indexer-general

## General Tasks
Log in just before the end of each Era to check and resolve any warnings or notifications

### Allocation

- Avoid having tokens allocated to outdated deployments. An “Outdated Allocation Projects” pop up will appear if this occurs. This means that you have to adjust your allocation to the latest version.
- Avoid having “Unallocated Stake”. To maximise rewards, ensure all tokens are allocated. An “Unallocated Stake” pop up will appear if this occurs. 

### Projects
- Ensure your project is online. Appending “/healthy” to the end of your http URL should return:
```
{
  "autoReduceAllocation": true,
  "controller": "",
  "coordinatorVersion": "v2.2.3",
  "indexer": "",
  "os": "Debian GNU/Linux 10 4-CPU",
  "proxyVersion": "v2.4.2",
  "uptime": 8066
}
```
- Ensure you have at least one flexplan enabled for each project.
- Ensure projects are able to fetch metadata from deployment’s Query Service. An error will appear in the status column if there is an issue.

### Maintain balance in controller account

- Ensure enough ETH balance is in your Controller Account so that rewards can be collected automatically. This will result in an Era Reward Collection status of “Frequent” on the [All Node Operators](https://app.subquery.network/indexer/all-indexers) dashboard meaning that your Delegators can also receive their rewards.

### Selecting Projects to Index

As a node operator, two types of projects can be indexed. SubQuery projects or RPC projects. See: https://app.subquery.network/explorer/home for a complete list. 

Rewards are generated by each project based on the amount of boost allocated to a project and then shared proportionally between the number of operators (for that project).

What to look out for? Projects with:
- high boost
- high query numbers
- low competition
- low project complexity

Project database size is a good indicator of cost

## Node Operator Rewards FAQs

### Which projects should I run to generate the highest rewards?

Project rewards come from a combination of its Stake Rewards and Query Rewards. 

Stake rewards are measured in stake APY, the Annual Percentage Yield you can expect from allocating SQT to a project. It is a function of the boost applied to a project, which sets the size of its total stake reward pool, divided by the stake allocated to the project. 

To maximise stake APY, look for projects which have high boost, but low allocated stake.

Query Rewards are generated when people pay for queries against a project. 

To maximise query rewards look for projects that have high average query rewards per Node Operator.

### Should I run Index projects or RPC projects?

Index projects typically receive a higher portion of their rewards via stake rewards which is relatively stable era-to-era. 

RPC projects typically receive more query rewards which can produce a higher overall APY but with more volatility as query demand changes.

Running RPCs is very easy if you are already familiar with them, and it’s suggested to connect your existing RPCs to the SubQuery Network if you are already running an RPC for another usecase (the RPC service does not need to be dedicated to the SubQuery Network).

### How can I attract more RPC requests?
The public RPC gateway will allocate RPC requests based on your:
- Reliability: Improve your uptime to increase queries.
- Block height delay: Keep your nodes fully synced to receive queries.
- Latency: Reduce latency by keeping your Node CPU usage healthy with good network connection.
- Price: Lower pricing can receive more RPC requests.

### Should I run all RPC projects?
If you are already running RPC nodes which have capacity to serve more requests, it may be beneficial to add SubQuery as an extra source of requests to maximise your return from the node with very little added cost.

### Do I need to allocate stake to my RPC projects to earn query rewards?
No. Your query rewards are slightly impacted by your total stake, but are not impacted by which project you allocate the stake to. You can allocate 1 SQT to an RPC project and still receive query rewards.

### So when would I allocate stake to my RPC projects?
RPC Projects do also earn stake APY. You should allocate stake if it makes competitive stake APY compared to your other projects.

### Can you add support for the other RPCs I run?
We are planning to expand our RPC projects. Letting us know which other nodes you run can help us to onboard new networks faster.

### Why did I get 0 query rewards last era?
Projects may receive 0 or low query rewards if:
- Your project is not competitive at price v performance (see [How can I attract more RPC requests?](#how-can-i-attract-more-rpc-requests))
- Your project was offline
- Your project was unhealthy
- Your project is not fully synced
- You did not have Flex Plan pricing enabled
- Your indexer version does not automatically claim query rewards (must be v2.2.1 or later)
- Your indexer controller account does not have balance to claim query rewards

### How should I allocate my Stake amongst my projects for best rewards?
Allocate stake to your projects which have the highest stake APY.

Note: Project stake APY (annual reward per SQT staked) reduces as more stake is allocated to a project. Allocating all your stake to your highest performing project could reduce its APY and make it no longer the best choice for allocation. Regularly review and adjust the stake across your projects to find the right balance.

### How can I attract more Delegators
- Having a high NOCR (Node Operator Commission Rate)
- Having a high historic delegator APY
- Join the network-delegator-chat and introduce yourself to the delegator community
- Share your node to your community and encourage them to delegate

### My delegation increased. Is it more profitable to add more projects, or to increase stake in my existing projects?
If your current projects continue to earn competitive stake APY after adding additional stake, you do not need to add new projects to increase rewards.

However, if by adding extra stake to your projects its total allocation becomes oversized, the stake APY of that project could reduce. At that point you may consider adding new projects that are returning higher stake APY and rebalancing your stake.

### Why do some Node Operators have >100% APY
Node Operator APY compares their total returns to the amount they have personally staked (self stake)

Node Operators can achieve high APY when:
- They have large delegation relative to their own self stake, meaning they earn extra rewards in commission off somebody else's delegation.
- They prioritise projects with high query rewards so are less dependent on the size of their stake.

High node operator APY does not necessarily mean that they make more overall rewards or profit.

### When should I mark my new project as Online
When they are fully synced

### How do I know how long/difficult an index project will be to sync?
The project’s satabase size is the best indicator of how large the index project will be.
